Rules – Badminton(Shuttle Mixed)

1. TOSS
1.1. Before play commences, a toss shall be conducted and the team winning the toss shall exercise the choice in either to serve or receive first; or to start play at one end of the court or the other.
1.2. The team losing the toss shall then exercise the remaining choice.

2. SCORING SYSTEM
2.1. In the group matches, each match shall consist of one game. In the quarter finals, semi finals and final are best of three games.
2.2. A game shall be won by the team which first scores 21 points, except as provided in 2.4 and 2.5.
2.3. The team winning a rally shall add a point to its score. A team shall win a rally, if the opposing team commits a 'fault' or the shuttle ceases to be in play because it touches the surface of the court inside the opponent's court.
2.4. If the score becomes 20-all, the team which gains a two point lead first, shall win that game.
2.5. If the score becomes 29-all, the team scoring the 30th point shall win that game.
2.6. In the best of three games, The team winning a game shall serve first in the subsequent game. (Applicable only for the finals)

3. CHANGE OF ENDS
3.1. In all games, including QF,SF and F Players must change ends when a team first scores 11 points.
3.2. In addition, in the QF,SF and F, at the end of the first game, at the end of the second game and , if there is to be a third game
3.3. If the ends are not changed as indicated in 3.1 and 3.2, it shall be done so as soon as the mistake is discovered and when the shuttle is not in play. The existing score shall stand.

4. SERVICE
4.1. In a correct service:
4.1.1. neither team shall cause undue delay to the delivery of the service once the server and the receiver are ready for the service. On completion of the backward movement of server's racket head, any delay in the start of the service, shall be considered to be an undue delay;
4.1.2. the server and the receiver shall stand within diagonally opposite service courts without touching the boundary lines of these service courts;
4.1.3. some part of both feet of the server and the receiver shall remain in contact with the surface of the court in a stationary position from the start of the service (4.2) until the service is delivered (4.3);
4.1.4. the server's racket shall initially hit the base of the shuttle;
4.1.5. the flight of the shuttle shall be upwards from the server's racket to pass over the net so that, if not intercepted, it shall land in the receiver's service court (i.e. on or within the boundary lines); and
4.1.6. in attempting to serve, the server shall not miss the shuttle.
4.2. Once the players are ready for the service, the first forward movement of the server's racket head shall be the start of the service.
4.3. Once started (4.2), the service is delivered when the shuttle is hit by the server's racket or, in attempting to serve, the server misses the shuttle.
4.4. The server shall not serve before the receiver is ready and whistled by the umpire. However, the receiver shall be considered to have been ready if a return of the service is attempted.
4.5. During the delivery of service (4.2 and 4.3), the partners may take up any positions within their respective courts, which do not unsight the opposing server or receiver.

5. DOUBLES
5.1. Serving and receiving courts
5.1.1. A player of the serving team shall serve from the right service court when the serving team has not scored or has scored an even number of points in that game.
5.1.2. A player of the serving team shall serve from the left service court when the serving team has scored an odd number of points in that game.
5.1.3. The player of the receiving team who served last shall stay in the same service court from where he served last. The reverse pattern shall apply to the receiver's partner.
5.1.4. The player of the receiving team standing in the diagonally opposite service court to the server shall be the receiver.
5.1.5. The players shall not change their respective service courts until they win a point when their team is serving.
5.1.6. Service in any turn of serving shall be delivered from the service court corresponding to the serving team's score.
5.2. Order of play and position on court
After the service is returned, in a rally, the shuttle may be hit by either player of the serving team and either player of the receiving team alternately, from any position on that player's side of the net, until the shuttle ceases to be in play.
5.3. Scoring and serving
5.3.1 If the serving team wins a rally, the serving team shall score a point. The server shall then serve again from the alternate service court.
5.3.2 If the receiving team wins a rally, the receiving team shall score a point. The receiving team shall then become the new serving side.

6. SERVICE COURT ERRORS
6.1. A service court error has been made when a player:
6.1.1. has served or received out of turn; or
6.1.2. has served or received from the wrong service court;
6.2. If a service court error is discovered, the error shall be corrected and the existing score shall stand.

7. FAULTS
It shall be a 'fault':
7.1. if a service is not correct
7.2. if, in service, the shuttle:
7.2.1. is caught on the net and remains suspended on its top;
7.2.2. after passing over the net, is caught in the net; or
7.2.3. is hit by the receiver's partner;
7.3. if in play, the shuttle:
7.3.1. lands outside the boundaries of the court (i.e. not on or within the boundary lines);
7.3.2. passes through or under the net;
7.3.3. fails to pass over the net;
7.3.4. touches the ceiling or side walls;
7.3.5. touches the person or dress of a player;
7.3.6. touches any other object or person outside the court;
7.3.7. is caught and held on the racket and then slung during the execution of a stroke;
7.3.8. is hit twice in succession by the same player.
7.3.9. is hit by a player and the player's partner successively; or
7.3.10. touches a player's racket and does not travel towards the opponent's court;
7.4. if, in play, a player:
7.4.1. touches the net or its supports with racket, person or dress;
7.4.2. invades an opponent's court over the net with racket or person
7.4.3. invades an opponent's court under the net with racket or person such that an opponent is obstructed or distracted; or
7.4.4. obstructs an opponent, i.e. prevents an opponent from making a legal stroke where the shuttle is followed over the net;
7.5. Miscellaneous
7.5.1. If the shuttle touches the tree, the play to be stopped and a reserve will be called for.
7.5.2. All line calls are considered

8. Umpires decision is final.