Rules -Volleyball

1. 6 players on the floor at any one time - 3 in the front row and 3 in the back row.

2. Maximum of 3 hits per side.

3. Points are made on every serve for winning team of rally (rally-point scoring)

4. Player may not hit the ball twice in succession. (A block is not considered a hit.)

5. Ball may be played off the net during a volley and on a serve.

6. A ball hitting a boundary line is in.

7. A ball is out if it hits an antennae, the floor completely outside the court,
any of the net or cables outside the antennae, the referee stand or pole,
the ceiling above a non-playable area.

8. It is legal to contact the ball with any part of a player’s body.

9. It is illegal to catch, hold or throw the ball.

10. A player cannot block or attack a serve from on or inside the 10-foot line.

11. After the serve, front-line players may switch positions at the net.

12. Two kind of matches will be there in tournament.1) Knockout league matches
consists of 25 points 2). Final match consists of “set of three matches,
each match consisting of 25 points”

13. Rule violations that result in a point for the opponent

13.1 When serving, the player steps on or across the service line as while
making contact with the ball.

13.2 Failure to serve the ball over the net successfully.

13.3 Ball-handling errors. Contacting the ball illegally (double touching,
lifting, carrying, throwing, etc.)

13.4 Touching the net with any part of the body while the ball is in play.

13.5 When blocking a ball coming from the opponent’s court, it’s illegal to
contact the ball when reaching over the net if both your opponent has not used 3 contacts
AND they have a player there to make a play on the ball.

13.6 When attacking a ball coming from the opponent’s court, contacting the ball
when reaching over the net is a violation if the ball has not yet broken the vertical
plane of the net.

13.7 Crossing the court centerline with any part of your body is a violation.
Exception: if it is the hand or foot. In this case, the entire hand or entire foot
must cross for it to be a violation.

13.8 Serving out of rotation/order.

13.9 Back-row player blocking (deflecting a ball coming from the opponent) when,
at the moment of contact, the back-row player is near the net and has part of his/her
body above the top of the net. This is an illegal block.

13.10 Back-row player attacking a ball inside the front zone (the area inside the 3M/10-foot line) when, at the moment of contact, the ball is completely above the net.
This is an illegal attack. 